README.md, before:

# Gen-Swarms: Adapting Deep Generative Models to Swarms of Drones

## Clone the repository and dependencies

Clone the repository.
```bash
git clone https://github.com/cplou99/Gen-Swarms
```

Install via conda environment YAML file.

```bash
# Create the environment
conda env create -f env.yml
# Activate the environment
conda activate gen-swarms
```


## Dataset and checkpoints

Dataset is available at data folder of diffusion-point-cloud paper: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Su0hCuGFo1AGrNb_VMNnlF7qeQwKjfhZ. Please, download and locate the `shapenet.hdf5` file inside the `data` folder of Gen-Swarms repository.

Some checkpoints are located at `logs_gen` folder.

## Training

```bash
# Train a generator
python train_gen.py
```

You may specify the value of arguments. Please find the available arguments in the script. By default, new checkpoints will be saved at `logs_gen` folder.

Note that `--categories` can take `all` (use all the categories in the dataset), `airplane`, `chair` (use a single category), or `airplane,chair` (use multiple categories, separated by commas).


## Testing

```bash
# Test a generator
python test_gen.py --ckpt ./logs_gen/gen-swarms_airplane.pt --categories airplane --num_gen_samples 10
```

Some generated pointclouds with their trajectories and the evaluation metrics used in the paper will be saved at `results` folder. If you want to replicate the results of the paper, please put `--num_gen_samples None`.

You may find some additional scripts inside `show` folder to visualize results.

## Citation
```
@misc{plou2024genswarmsadaptingdeepgenerative,
      title={Gen-Swarms: Adapting Deep Generative Models to Swarms of Drones}, 
      author={Carlos Plou and Pablo Pueyo and Ruben Martinez-Cantin and Mac Schwager and Ana C. Murillo and Eduardo Montijano},
      year={2024},
      eprint={2408.15899},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.RO},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15899}, 
}
```

Commit message:

Eliminado submódulo Python-RVO2-3D y corregido el .gitignore

README.md, after:

# Gen-Swarms: Adapting Deep Generative Models to Swarms of Drones

## Clone the repository and install dependencies

Clone the repository.
```bash
git clone https://github.com/cplou99/Gen-Swarms
```

Install all packages via conda environment YAML file.

```bash
# Create the environment
conda env create -f env.yml
# Activate the environment
conda activate gen-swarms
```

Install RVO2-3D Library which is an easy-to-use C++ implementation of the optimal reciprocal collision avoidance (ORCA)[https://gamma.cs.unc.edu/ORCA/] formulation
```bash
git clone https://github.com/mtreml/Python-RVO2-3D
cd Python-RVO2-3D
python setup.py build
python setup.py install
```

## Dataset and checkpoints

Dataset is available at (data folder)[https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Su0hCuGFo1AGrNb_VMNnlF7qeQwKjfhZ] of diffusion-point-cloud paper. Please, download and locate the `shapenet.hdf5` file inside the `data` folder of Gen-Swarms repository.

Some checkpoints are located at `logs_gen` folder.

## Training

```bash
# Train a generator
python train_gen.py
```

You may specify the value of arguments. Please find the available arguments in the script. By default, new checkpoints will be saved at `logs_gen` folder.

Note that `--categories` can take `all` (use all the categories in the dataset), `airplane`, `chair` (use a single category), or `airplane,chair` (use multiple categories, separated by commas).


## Testing
To generate some pointclouds with their trajectories from a trained model, please run.

```bash
# Test a generator
python test_gen.py --ckpt ./logs_gen/gen-swarms_airplane.pt --categories airplane --num_gen_samples 10
```

Results will be saved at `results` folder. If you want to replicate the results of the paper, please run with `--num_gen_samples None`.
You may find some additional scripts inside `show` folder to visualize results.

## Citation
```
@misc{plou2024genswarmsadaptingdeepgenerative,
      title={Gen-Swarms: Adapting Deep Generative Models to Swarms of Drones}, 
      author={Carlos Plou and Pablo Pueyo and Ruben Martinez-Cantin and Mac Schwager and Ana C. Murillo and Eduardo Montijano},
      year={2024},
      eprint={2408.15899},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.RO},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15899}, 
}
```
